Welcome back everyone to this lecture where we're going to challenge you and your new skills on these
joint concepts.
It's just going to be two quick problems but one of them is going to try to have you do something that
we didn't exactly see in the lectures.
So start at the first challenge is the easier the to so let's imagine that a California sales tax law
has changed and we need to alert our customers to this through e-mail.
So the question is what are the e-mails of the customers who live in California OK here are the expected
results.
So you should be able to view nine customers that live in California.
And these are the e-mails you may not get them in this exact order depending on how you actually solve
this problem.
Coming up are some hints.
So as you probably saw from the previous picture you're going to need to take a look at the district
column for whatever reason the actual database labels the California state as a district.
So take a look at the district column.
That's where you're going to be using and you're going to need to use the address and customer tables
OK.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the solution.
So here's the solution.
In fact I'm going to code this out in peach cabin just so we can work through the logic a little bit.
Let's head over the P.G. Ataman OK.
Here I am in P.G. Ataman what I'm going to do is first explore the two tables we're working with so
I know I have the customer table.
I'll take a look at it and what I need to do is figure out what am I going to join the customer information
on to the address table.
And you should notice right away that the customers have an address I.D. and they don't really have
any other information on their address.
And if we take a look at the address table so let's select everything from address.
We have this unique address I.D. that then has all the information on the address and specifically what
we're looking for is information about this particular district.
So that's the California district that later we're going to be filtering on.
So since we're going to be doing an inner join because I essentially just want where the tables match
up of a customer living in California what I can do is say select everything from address inner join
with customer on address dot address I.D. is equal to that customer's address I.D..
So if I just run this I should get back a whole bunch of columns.
So notice now I essentially have this kind of mega table so to speak returned where it's just all the
address information for that particular customer because I'm joining it by the address I.D..
So now I get to see the address editors to district and so on.
And if I keep scrolling all the way over now I get to see the customer information their first name
last name email and so on and notice here address I.D. is repeated it shows up twice.
And that's because there was to address I.D. columns one from the address table and then one from the
customer table.
So in theory I can actually begin filtering off the results of this.
So now I can say where district is equal to California and if I run this notice now I get back all those
same columns but now it's only for the districts to have California and if I expand on this a little
bit and scroll down you should see that essentially only nine results.
And recall really the information I was interested in was the e-mail so I can say district email columns
from this result and I get back these results here.
Now a really common student question is What if I wanted to say from customer inner join on address
that's totally ok to since we're really doing an inner join and we're interested where I have entries
for both the customer and the address.
It's not really helpful if I don't have a customer that exists there because I'm not going to be able
to have an e-mail for them.
So you could technically switch out address and customer here.
So I just want to show you that.
So let's say I say select from customer inner join on address notice here the order doesn't matter because
this is an inner join.
So if I run this exact same thing I get back the exact same results.
So for an inner join this table order doesn't matter.
This joint column order doesn't really matter either because it's the same inner join it's that center
of that Venn diagram where they're actually connecting and you didn't have to do this in as many steps.
Hopefully you're able to just kind of do this in a few steps without having to select all the columns
from the table.
All right.
So that's the logic for building out this first challenge.
Now let's go ahead and go back to the second challenge which is a bit harder.
All right.
Your second challenge is the following situation.
A customer walks into the store and they're a huge fan of this actor Nick Walberg and they want to know
which movies has Nick Wahlberg been in.
So your task is to basically get a list of all the movies.
Nick Wahlberg has been in.
So let's take a look at the expected results.
Here are the expected results.
There should be twenty five movies.
You can get them in any order you want.
But really what I want you to do here is just stop the video right here and don't move on to the hints
and solution instead really push yourself to see if you're able to return the results as shown here.
Not just the titles but also the first name and last name linked to the title to confirm.
Nick Wahlberg is in this movie.
And the reason I really want you to push yourself here is because you're gonna have to do something
that we didn't exactly show in the lecture but you should be able to look up online through a stack
overflow search a quick Google search or even the postcard sequel documentation.
And this is really where you get to expand your skill set and become good at looking up information
online instead of just becoming a master of memorizing everything.
In fact it's a much more valuable skill to be able to look things up for new situations because you're
going to always be encountering new situations.
So I really encourage you to this pause the video and try your hardest to see if you can duplicate or
replicate this expected result table and get back to twenty five movies that Nick Wahlberg has been
in.
OK.
So I hope you gave it your best shot.
If you're still a little stuck.
We're gonna do is give you some hints.
So here are the hints.
You're actually going to need to do two joins in a row to do this in a single query.
If you're actually already got the results be did it throughout multiple queries.
That's ok too but I would highly encourage you to try to do this as a single SQL query call.
And in order to do that you actually to do two joins in a row and I highly encourage you to search the
online documentation or a simple Google search to see how this is done or if you want you can also search
the Q and A forums.
This question has been answered before.
How to do multiple joins in a row.
The tables you should be using are the actor table the film table and the film actor table.
OK so again this is something we didn't exactly show in the lecture because we want you to be able to
feel comfortable pushing yourself beyond your limits of what you already know and discover new information
online by yourself.
Okay.
So those are the hints.
And finally let's go over the solution.
So this is what the solution should look like.
As an example know we're essentially going to select Title First Name Last Name and we're going to be
doing two joints.
So let's go ahead and jump the PGA admin so we can walk through a little bit of the logic of what's
happening here.
OK.
Here I am in PGA admin again.
Let's go out and explore the three tables we're going to be working with and that is the film table.
And if I run this note that the film table has the title information that I'm looking for.
And it also has this film I.D..
Unfortunately the film table itself has no direct information about what actors are in that film.
And if I take a look at the actor table and run that this is the information of the first name and last
name I can actually see Nick Wahlberg has the actor idea too.
So he shows a second that list and it has the actor I.D. what I need to do is figure out the go between
or connection between the film table and the accurate table which this database actually has for us
in the form of the film underscore actor table.
This film macro table directly connects the actor I.D. to the film I.D..
So what I aim to do are two sets of joints essentially film to film actor I.D. and then film actor Ida
joined a film results to the actor.
And then I can do any filtering I want based off the first name and last name.
Let's go ahead and check this out.
There's lots of different ways you could do this depending on the ordering.
You think of but let's start off by connecting the actor to the film actor table.
So let's say select everything from actor inner join with this film actor table on actor the actor I.D.
is equal to film actor that actor I.D. So if I just run this and see the results here.
Now we have the information of my actors first name and last name and are actor I.D. And if I scroll
down I now have this film I.D. which is exactly what I need to join this now with the film table.
So this is where I need to do yet another inner join which hopefully are able to figure out through
a little bit of google searching and if not that's OK.
That's what this lecture is for.
So that we're going to inner join these results with film on and this is where we have to think what
are we actually joining here.
Well I'm looking for the join between the film actors result for a film might be with the film.
So I'm going to say film actor.
The film I D.
Equal to film that film Ida run this.
And now I get back even more results with the actor I.D. first name last name.
Last update actor the film.
The film I.D. and then the title.
So what I'm actually interested in here.
I'm interested in the title and the first name and last name.
So let's just select those columns Title First Name Last Name run that.
So now I see the titles and then the actors that are in that title.
Perfect.
So what's next.
I just need a full trial where the first name is equal to Nick and the last name is equal to Wahlberg.
So we're going to do here is say where first name.
Equal to Nick and last name.
Equal to Wahlberg and make sure you take note of the capitalization so you run this.
And now I get to see the titles that are associate of the actor Nick Wahlberg.
If I scroll down I should see those twenty five titles.
Okay so that's the logic here.
You gonna take your first results from actor join on the film actor on the actor I.D. then join those
results with film based off the film I.D. and technically you could have switch these orders around.
Since we're essentially looking at the interconnection or these inner join.
So the orders don't really matter.
OK that's it for your challenges.
Hopefully you were able to really push yourself on this second challenge problem.
I'll see you at the next lecture.